Now I will use Visual Studio Code which you can get on code.visualstudio.com.
This is a free IDE, a very powerful one, a
very nice and easy to use one
and this is the IDE I will use here, to build my Angular app and work on my Angular app.
You can simply download it here,
it is available for all major platforms and walk through the installer that gives you and
once you did that, you can simply open Visual Studio Code.
Now inside Visual Studio Code, simply open the project you just created in the command line,
so this Angular project and you should get something like this, you use file open to open that folder.
Now this is the Angular project and now here, I got a specific look,
you can hit command shift P or a control shift p on Windows and then simply type theme here to choose
your color theme
and I'm using the dark plus theme here which gives me that dark look.
Additionally, I use some extensions and you can hit command shift X or control shift X to go to the
extensions menu here or you use view and then choose extensions here and there,
I'm using the material icon package, that is optional but that explains why the icons in my project
will look the way they do look, you can simply install that if you want the same look and I'm using the Angular
essentials package and you can simply search for that and install this to have an essential set of extensions
in Visual Studio Code that makes working with Angular apps easier and thereafter you can switch back to
this explorer view here. Now we have that newly created Angular project and the remaining thing to do
is to start a development server that allows us to work on this project and you can do that in the terminal
where you created the project by navigating into that project with cd ng-refresher and then running
ng serve or the way I'll do it, in your IDE, in Visual Studio Code, you can click on terminal, new terminal
to bring up a new terminal or command prompt but here inside your IDE, so this is the same normal terminal
and command prompt you have outside of it but here it's simply integrated and conveniently, it automatically
navigated into your project folder and therefore here, you can also run ng serve and this again uses
the Angular CLI to now bring up a development server which kicks off that build process I was talking
about, which even watches your files for changes to rerun that build process whenever something changes
and which gives you a URL you can visit, this one here to preview your Angular app. You can just
enter that into your browser,
here it is http://localhost:4200 to see your Angular app in a browser as your users would
see it and you need to keep this ng serve process running to keep watching for changes and to be
able to visit this again. Double-clicking the index.html file which you will find here in the source
folder will not do it because A, this is only the input and this will be bundled up and moved to a different
location, for ng serve
this happens in memory which is why you can't see a different folder here but B, even if that were the
final file, double-clicking it would use the file protocol not the HTTP protocol and you need the HTTP
protocol for all features to work correctly.
Now last but not least, let me show you what happens behind the scenes.
As I mentioned, ng serve does all this compilation and bundling in memory,
you can see the real output by running ng build and this will now not start a development server
but instead, it will do the same steps the serve process does, compile the Typescript code and bundle everything
up but you can see what this gives you. It gives you a dist folder and again ng serve kind of does
the same thing but behind the scenes in memory only and there, you see that index.html file with
that script import I mentioned on an earlier slide, actually multiple imports but the most important
import for us is that main.js import which imports this Javascript file and this is your compiled
and bundled and optimized Angular code. And this is not the code we're writing because this doesn't really
look like code you would want to write but it is what we'll get in the end and it's interesting to keep
this in mind because we will write it in a so much more convenient way by working here in the source
folder.
Let me now walk you through that folder and Angular's core features in the next lectures.